In this hands on activity,
we will be using Spark Streaming
to read weather data.
First, we open
the Spark Streaming Jupyter Notebook.
Next, we will look at sensor format and
measurement types.
We'll then create a Spark DStream of
weather data, read the measurements, and
create a sliding window of the data.
We will define a function to display the
maximum and minimum values in the window.
We start to stream processing
to give their results.
Before we begin this activity, we need
to change the virtual box settings for
our carder virtual machine.
Start streaming needs more
than one thread of execution.
So we need to change the settings to
add more than one virtual processor.
First, shut down your cloudera virtual
machine and go to the virtual box manager.
Select the cloudera virtual box and
click on settings.
Next, click on system, click on Processor.
And change the number of
CPU's to be two or more.
When you're done, click okay,
and start the machine as usual.
Let's begin.
First, click on the browser icon
at the top of the tool bar.
Navigate to the Jupyter Notebook server,
monitoring local host calling 8889.
We'll then go in to downloads.
Big data 3.
Spark-streaming.
Let's then open Spark-Streaming notebook.
This first line, shows the example
data we get from the weather station.
Each line has a time stamp and
a set of measurements.
Each of these abbreviations is
a particular type of measurement,
followed by the actual value.
The next cell shows the key for
these measurements.
For this hands-on, we are interested
in the average wind direction.
Which is abbreviated as DM.
This next cell, defines a function
that parses each line of text and
pulls out the average wind speed.
We define it here, so
we don't have to type it in later.
Let's run this cell.
Next, let's create
a streaming spark context.
First, we'll need to import the module.
We'll enter from pyspark.streaming
import StreamingContext.
We can create a new streaming context.
We'll put in in a variable called ssc.
We'll enter ssc = StreamingContext(sc,1).
The SC is a StreamingContext.
The 1 specifies the batch interval,
1 second in this case.
Let's run this.
Next, we'll create a dstream.
We'll import the streaming weather data,
over a TCP connection.
We'll put this in a dstream called, Lines.
Let's say lines = ssc.socketTextStream,
we'll enter the host name in
port of the weather station,
rtd.hpwren.ucsd.edu for 12028.
Let's run this.
Next, we'll create a new d-stream called
vals that would hold the measurements.
We'll say vals = lines.flatMap parse.
This calls the parse function,
we defined above for
each of the lines coming
from the weather station.
The resulting D-Stream will have just
the average wind direction values.
We'll run this.
Next, we'll create a window that
will aggregate the D-Stream values.
We'll say, window = vals.window(10,5).
The first argument specifies that the
length of the window should be 10 seconds.
The second argument specifies that
the window should move every 5 seconds.
Let's run this.
Next, we'll define a function
that prints the minimum and
maximum values that we see.
We'll start by entering the definition.
Def stats,
this will take an rdd as an argument.
Next, let's print the entire
contents of the rdd.
Print, parenthesis rdd.collect,
this'll print the entire
content of the rdd.
In a real big data application,
this will be impractical due
to the size of the data.
However, for this hands on,
the rdd is small, and so
we can use this to see
the contents of the rdd.
Next, we'll print the min and max.
Before we do that however,
we should check to make sure that
the size of the rdd is greater than zero.
We'll check that rdd.count
is greater than 0.
Finally, we'll print the MinID, MAX.
We'll enter print (“max = {} min =
{}”) Outside of the quote we'll do
.format(rdd.max,rdd.min())).
Let's run this, next,
let's call this function stats.
So all the rdds in our sliding window.
I'll enter window.foreachRDD(stats).
Run this.
We're now ready to start
our streaming processing.
We can do this by entering ssc.start.
We'll run this to start the streaming.
When we want to stop this streaming,
we'll run ssc.stop
Please scroll up and
look at the beginning of the output.
We'll see that it's printing the full
window and the min and max values.
Notice that in the beginning,
the window is not yet filled.
In this case, there's only three entries.
We count to see that the window
is moving by five measurements.
For example, the last five
measurements in the second window,
are the first five measurements
in the third window.